added docs for mgmt-cluster (#271)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/product/atip-management-cluster.adoc

image::product-atip-mgmtcluster1.png[]

There are three main steps to set up the management cluster using a declarative approach:

. **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-preparation[Image preparation]**: The first step is to prepare the manifests and files with all the necessary configurations.

>   - xref:mgmt-cluster-directory-structure[Directory structure]: The first step is to create a directory structure to be used by `Edge Image Builder` to store the configuration files and the image itself.

Reviewer: two first steps?

Author: ok let's change it to say simply to create

  - xref:mgmt-cluster-image-definition-file[Management cluster definition file]: The `mgmt-cluster.yaml` file is the main definition file for the management cluster. It contains the following information about the image to be created:
        ** Image Information: The information related to the image to be created using the base image.
        ** Operating system: The operating system configurations to be used in the image.
        ** Kubernetes: version with the Helm charts to be installed, the repositories to be used, the network configuration, and the nodes to be used in the cluster.

>   - xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-folder[Custom folder]: The `custom` folder contains the configuration files and scripts to be used by the management cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-folder[Custom folder]: The `custom` folder contains the configuration files and scripts used by EIB to deploy a fully functional management cluster.
```

. **xref:mgmt-cluster-provision[Management Cluster Provision]**: This step covers the provisioning of the management cluster using the image created in the previous step. This step can be done using a laptop, server, VM or any other x86_64 system with a USB port.

[NOTE]
====
For more information about Edge Image Builder, see <<components-eib,Edge Image Builder>> and <<quickstart-eib,Edge Image Builder Quick Start>>.
====

[#mgmt-cluster-image-preparation]
=== Image preparation

Using Edge Image Builder to create the image for the management cluster, a lot of configurations can be customized, but in this document, we cover the minimal configurations necessary to set up the management cluster.
Edge Image Builder is typically run from inside a container so, if you do not already have a way to run containers, we need to start by installing a container runtime such as https://podman.io[Podman] or https://rancherdesktop.io[Rancher Desktop]. For this guide, we assume you already have a container runtime available.

> Also, as a prerequisite to deploy a management cluster, you need to reserve three IPs in your network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, as a prerequisite to deploy a highly available management cluster, you need to reserve three IPs in your network:
```

- `apiVIP` for the API VIP Address (used to access the Kubernetes API server).
- `ingressVIP` for the Ingress VIP Address (consumed for example by the Rancher UI).
- `metal3VIP` for the Metal3 VIP Address.

[#mgmt-cluster-directory-structure]
==== Directory structure

When running the `EIB`, a directory is mounted from the host, so the first thing to do is to create a directory structure to be used by the `EIB` to store the configuration files and the image itself.
This directory has the following structure:

[,console]
----
eib
├── mgmt-cluster.yaml
├── network
│ └── mgmt-cluster-node1.yaml
├── kubernetes
│ ├── manifests
│ │ ├── rke2-ingress-config.yaml
│ │ ├── neuvector-namespace.yaml
│ │ ├── ingress-l2-adv.yaml
│ │ └── ingress-ippool.yaml
│ ├── helm
│ │ └── values
│ │     ├── rancher.yaml
│ │     ├── neuvector.yaml
│ │     ├── metal3.yaml
│ │     └── certmanager.yaml
│ └── config
│     └── server.yaml
├── custom
│ ├── scripts
│ │ ├── 99-register.sh
│ │ ├── 99-mgmt-setup.sh
│ │ └── 99-alias.sh
│ └── files
│     ├── rancher.sh
│     ├── mgmt-stack-setup.service
│     ├── metal3.sh
│     └── basic-setup.sh
└── base-images

----

[NOTE]
====

> The image `SLE-Micro.x86_64-5.5.0-Default-SelfInstall-GM2.install.iso` has to be downloaded from the https://scc.suse.com/[SUSE Customer Center] or the https://www.suse.com/download/sle-micro/[SUSE Download page], and it has to be located under the `base-images` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image `SLE-Micro.x86_64-5.5.0-Default-SelfInstall-GM2.install.iso` must be downloaded from the https://scc.suse.com/[SUSE Customer Center] or the https://www.suse.com/download/sle-micro/[SUSE Download page], and it must be located under the `base-images` folder.
```

> The image `SLE-Micro.x86_64-5.5.0-Default-SelfInstall-GM2.install.iso` must be downloaded from the https://scc.suse.com/[SUSE Customer Center] or the https://www.suse.com/download/sle-micro/[SUSE Download page], and it must be located under the `base-images` folder.

Reviewer: We now have the SHA256 sums in the release notes. It would be nice to ask users to verify those just in case.

Author: good idea... Added

> An example of the directory structure can be found in the https://github.com/suse-edge/misc/tree/main/telco-examples[GitHub repository Telco Examples].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of the directory structure can be found in the https://github.com/suse-edge/misc/tree/main/telco-examples[SUSE Edge GitHub repository under the "telco-examples" folder].
```

        ** Operating system: The operating system configurations to be used in the image.
        ** Kubernetes: Helm charts and repositories, kubernetes version, network configuration, and the nodes to be used in the cluster.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-folder[Custom folder]: The `custom` folder contains the configuration files and scripts to be used by Edge Image Builder to deploy a fully functional management cluster.
        ** Files: Contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
        ** Scripts: Contains the scripts to be used by the management cluster.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-folder[Kubernetes folder]: The `kubernetes` folder contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
        ** Manifests: Contains the manifests to be used by the management cluster.
        ** Helm: Contains the Helm charts to be used by the management cluster.
        ** Config: Contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-network-folder[Network folder]: The `network` folder contains the network configuration files to be used by the management cluster nodes.

> . **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-creation[Image creation]**: This step covers the creation of the image using the Edge Image Builder tool. This step can be done using a laptop, server, VM or any other x86_64 system with a container runtime installed.

Reviewer: EIB prerequisites mention only SLES leap or tumbleweed https://documentation.suse.com/suse-edge/3.0/html/edge/quickstart-eib.html#id-prerequisites-2

> . **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-creation[Image creation]**: This step covers the creation of the image using the Edge Image Builder tool. This step can be done using a laptop, server, VM or any other x86_64 system with a container runtime installed.

Author: why not? using podman on windows ?

> There are two main steps to set up the management cluster using a declarative approach:

Reviewer 3: In this case, since we have divided into 3 steps, This will change to: 
````
There are three steps to set up the management cluster using a declarative approach:
````

> * **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-preparation[Image preparation]**: The first step is to prepare the manifests and files with all the necessary configurations.

Reviewer 3: ````
. **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-preparation[Image preparation]**: The first step is to prepare the manifests and files with all the necessary configurations.
````

Author: which is the suggestion?

Author: now I know...means secuence instead of bullets. Thanks a lot @ranjinimn

  - xref:mgmt-cluster-directory-structure[Directory structure]: The first step is to create a directory structure to be used by the `Edge Image Builder` to store the configuration files and the image itself.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-image-definition-file[Management cluster definition file]: The `mgmt-cluster.yaml` file is the main definition file for the management cluster. It contains the following information about the image to be created:
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-image-information[Image Information]: The information related to the image to be created using the base image.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-operating-system[Operating system]: The operating system configurations to be used in the image.

>         ** xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-definition-file[Kubernetes] version with the Helm charts to be installed, the repositories to be used, the network configuration, and the nodes to be used in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: The PDF rendered is looking for a title for Image information, Operating System, and Kubernetes. 

![image](https://github.com/suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io/assets/168088002/619dcbb2-9a43-4f6f-8d6e-c601245a23a2)

Author: maybe because it's not a title? let's remove then the ref

  - xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-folder[Custom folder]: The `custom` folder contains the configuration files and scripts to be used by the management cluster.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-files[Files]: Contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-custom-scripts[Scripts]: Contains the scripts to be used by the management cluster.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-folder[Kubernetes folder]: The `kubernetes` folder contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-manifests-folder[Manifests]: Contains the manifests to be used by the management cluster.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-helm-folder[Helm]: Contains the Helm charts to be used by the management cluster.
        ** xref:mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-config-folder[Config]: Contains the configuration files to be used by the management cluster.
  - xref:mgmt-cluster-network-folder[Network folder]: The `network` folder contains the network configuration files to be used by the management cluster nodes.

> * **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-creation[Image creation]**: This step covers the creation of the image using the `Edge Image Builder` tool. This step can be done using a laptop, server, VM or any other x86_64 system with a container runtime installed.

Reviewer 3: ````
. **xref:mgmt-cluster-image-creation[Image creation]**: This step covers the creation of the image using the `Edge Image Builder` tool. This step can be done using a laptop, server, VM or any other x86_64 system with a container runtime installed.
````

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: The 3rd step can be mentioned here that once the image is created, you can set up the management cluster and provide the step.  

````
. **Set up the management cluster**. 
````
````

Using `Edge Image Builder` to create the image for the management cluster, a lot of configurations can be customized, but in this document, we cover the minimal configurations necessary to set up the management cluster.
Edge Image Builder is typically run from inside a container so, if you do not already have a way to run containers, we need to start by installing a container runtime such as https://podman.io[Podman] or https://rancherdesktop.io[Rancher Desktop]. For this guide, we assume you already have a container runtime available.

> Also, as a prerequisite to deploy a management cluster you will need to reserve 3 IPs in your network:

Author: changed

        installationNamespace: kube-system
        valuesFile: neuvector.yaml
      - name: rancher
        version: 2.8.3
        repositoryName: rancher-prime
        targetNamespace: cattle-system
        createNamespace: true
        installationNamespace: kube-system
        valuesFile: rancher.yaml
    repositories:
      - name: jetstack
        url: https://charts.jetstack.io
      - name: rancher-charts
        url: https://charts.rancher.io/
      - name: suse-edge-charts
        url: oci://registry.suse.com/edge
      - name: rancher-prime
        url: https://charts.rancher.com/server-charts/prime
    network:
      apiHost: ${API_HOST}
      apiVIP: ${API_VIP}
    nodes:
      - hostname: mgmt-cluster-node1
        initializer: true
        type: server
#     - hostname: mgmt-cluster-node2
#       initializer: true
#       type: server
#     - hostname: mgmt-cluster-node3
#       initializer: true
#       type: server
----

To explain the fields and values in the `mgmt-cluster.yaml` file, we have divided it into the following sections.
To explain the fields and values in the `mgmt-cluster.yaml` definition file, we have divided it into the following sections.

> ==== Image section:

Author: Because we cannot use more levels (like 5 =====), and following the sections we're using ==== for the main section blocks, so to explain the content inside we used bad the first time

  outputImageName: eib-mgmt-cluster-image.iso
----

where the `baseImage` is the original image you downloaded from the SUSE Customer Center or the SUSE Download page. `outputImageName` is the name of the new image that will be used to provision the management cluster.

- Operating system section (definition file):

[,yaml]
----
operatingSystem:
  isoConfiguration:
    installDevice: /dev/sda
  users:
  - username: root
    encryptedPassword: ${ROOT_PASSWORD}
  packages:
    packageList:
    - jq
    sccRegistrationCode: ${SCC_REGISTRATION_CODE}
----

> where the `installDevice` is the device to be used to install the operating system, the `username` and `encryptedPassword` are the credentials to be used to access the system, the `packageList` is the list of packages to be installed (`jq` is required internally during the installation process), and the `sccRegistrationCode` is the registration code to be used to register the system that can be obtained from the SUSE Customer Center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where the `installDevice` is the device to be used to install the operating system, the `username` and `encryptedPassword` are the credentials to be used to access the system, the `packageList` is the list of packages to be installed (`jq` is required internally during the installation process), and the `sccRegistrationCode` is the registration code used to get the packages and dependencies at build time and can be obtained from the SUSE Customer Center.
```

The `helm` section contains the list of Helm charts to be installed, the repositories to be used, and the version configuration for all of them.

The `network` section contains the configuration for the network, like the `apiHost` and `apiVIP` to be used by the `RKE2` component.
The `apiVIP` should be an IP address that is not used in the network and is not part of the DHCP pool (in case we use DHCP). Also, when we use the `apiVIP` in a multi-node cluster, it is used to access the Kubernetes API server.
The `apiHost` is the name resolution to `apiVIP` to be used by the `RKE2` component.

The `nodes` section contains the list of nodes to be used in the cluster. In our case, we are using a single-node cluster, but it can be extended to a multi-node cluster by adding more nodes to the list (uncommenting the lines).

[NOTE]
====
The names of the nodes have to be unique in the cluster, and the `initializer` field has to be set to `true` for the first node in the list.
The names of the nodes have to be the same as the hostnames defined in the `network` section matching directly with the filename in the `network` section.
====

> ==== Custom folder:

Author: let's talk about the structure. This is what I think should be the structure (before IMHO was confused)
=== instroduction
=== Steps to set up the management cluster
=== Image preparation
       ==== Directory Structure
       ==== Management cluster definition file
       ==== Custom Folder
       ==== Kubernetes Folder
       ==== Networking Folder
=== Image Creation

        createNamespace: true
        installationNamespace: kube-system
        valuesFile: rancher.yaml
    repositories:
      - name: jetstack
        url: https://charts.jetstack.io
      - name: rancher-charts
        url: https://charts.rancher.io/
      - name: suse-edge-charts
        url: oci://registry.suse.com/edge
      - name: rancher-prime
        url: https://charts.rancher.com/server-charts/prime
    network:
      apiHost: ${API_HOST}
      apiVIP: ${API_VIP}
    nodes:
      - hostname: mgmt-cluster1
        initializer: true
        type: server
#      - hostname: mgmt-cluster2
#        type: server
#      - hostname: mgmt-cluster3
#        type: server
----

where `version` is the version of Kubernetes to be installed. In our case, we are using an RKE2 cluster, so the version must be minor less than 1.29 to be compatible with `Rancher` (for example, `v1.28.8+rke2r1`).

The `helm` section contains the list of Helm charts to be installed, the repositories to be used, and the version configuration for all of them.

The `network` section contains the configuration for the network, like the `apiHost` and `apiVIP` to be used by the `RKE2` component.

> The `apiVIP` should be an IP address that is not used in the network and is not part of the DHCP pool (in case we use DHCP). Also, when we use the `apiVIP` in a multi-node cluster, it is used to access the Kubernetes API server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `apiVIP` should be an IP address that is not used in the network and should not be part of the DHCP pool (in case we use DHCP). Also, when we use the `apiVIP` in a multi-node cluster, it is used to access the Kubernetes API server.
```

The `apiHost` is the name resolution to `apiVIP` to be used by the `RKE2` component.

> The `nodes` section contains the list of nodes to be used in the cluster. In our case, we are using a single-node cluster, but it can be extended to a multi-node cluster by adding more nodes to the list (uncommenting the lines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nodes` section contains the list of nodes to be used in the cluster. In this example, a single-node cluster is being used, but it can be extended to a multi-node cluster by adding more nodes to the list (by uncommenting the lines).
```

Author: yes much better explained. Thanks

----
#!/bin/bash
# Pre-requisites. Cluster already running
export KUBECTL="/var/lib/rancher/rke2/bin/kubectl"
export KUBECONFIG="/etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml"

##################
# METAL3 DETAILS #
##################
export METAL3_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE="metal3-system"
export METAL3_CLUSTERCTLVERSION="1.6.2"
export METAL3_CAPICOREVERSION="1.6.2"
export METAL3_CAPIMETAL3VERSION="1.6.0"
export METAL3_CAPIRKE2VERSION="0.2.6"
export METAL3_CAPIPROVIDER="rke2"
export METAL3_CAPISYSTEMNAMESPACE="capi-system"
export METAL3_RKE2BOOTSTRAPNAMESPACE="rke2-bootstrap-system"
export METAL3_CAPM3NAMESPACE="capm3-system"
export METAL3_RKE2CONTROLPLANENAMESPACE="rke2-control-plane-system"
export METAL3_CAPI_IMAGES="registry.suse.com/edge"
# Or registry.opensuse.org/isv/suse/edge/clusterapi/containerfile/suse for the upstream ones

###########
# METALLB #
###########
export METALLBNAMESPACE="metallb-system"

###########
# RANCHER #
###########
export RANCHER_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE="cattle-system"
export RANCHER_FINALPASSWORD="adminadminadmin"

die(){
  echo ${1} 1>&2
  exit ${2}
}
----

* `metal3.sh`: contains the configuration for the `Metal^3^` component to be used (no modifications needed).
+

> [,shell]

Reviewer: I'd say it would be nice to add a note here that in the future this won't be needed by replacing those scripts by the rancher-turtles thing.

Author: I prefer keep it as is for now.

Reviewer: I'm not saying to remove anything but just add a note for users for them to know that in the future it will be simpler.

  fi
}

# Get or create the lock to run all those steps just in a single node
# As the first node is created WAY before the others, this should be enough
# TODO: Investigate if leases is better
if [ $(${KUBECTL} get cm -n ${METAL3LOCKNAMESPACE} ${METAL3LOCKCMNAME} -o name | wc -l) -lt 1 ]; then
  ${KUBECTL} create configmap ${METAL3LOCKCMNAME} -n ${METAL3LOCKNAMESPACE} --from-literal foo=bar
else
  exit 0
fi

# Wait for metal3
while ! ${KUBECTL} wait --for condition=ready -n ${METAL3_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE} $(${KUBECTL} get pods -n ${METAL3_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE} -l app.kubernetes.io/name=metal3-ironic -o name) --timeout=10s; do sleep 2 ; done

# Get the ironic IP
IRONICIP=$(${KUBECTL} get cm -n ${METAL3_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE} ironic-bmo -o jsonpath='{.data.IRONIC_IP}')

# If LoadBalancer, use metallb, else it is NodePort
if [ $(${KUBECTL} get svc -n ${METAL3_CHART_TARGETNAMESPACE} metal3-metal3-ironic -o jsonpath='{.spec.type}') == "LoadBalancer" ]; then
  # Wait for metallb
  while ! ${KUBECTL} wait --for condition=ready -n ${METALLBNAMESPACE} $(${KUBECTL} get pods -n ${METALLBNAMESPACE} -l app.kubernetes.io/component=controller -o name) --timeout=10s; do sleep 2 ; done

>   # Don't create the ippool if already created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Do not create the ippool if already created
```

  # Create a temporary API token (ttl=60 minutes)
  APITOKEN=$(curl -sk ${RANCHERHOSTNAME}/v3/token -H 'content-type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" -d '{"type":"token","description":"automation","ttl":3600000}' | jq -r .token)

  curl -sk ${RANCHERHOSTNAME}/v3/settings/server-url -H 'content-type: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer ${APITOKEN}" -X PUT -d "{\"name\":\"server-url\",\"value\":\"${RANCHERHOSTNAME}\"}"
  curl -sk ${RANCHERHOSTNAME}/v3/settings/telemetry-opt -X PUT -H 'content-type: application/json' -H 'accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer ${APITOKEN}" -d '{"value":"out"}'
fi

# Clean up the lock cm
${KUBECTL} delete configmap ${RANCHERLOCKCMNAME} -n ${RANCHERLOCKNAMESPACE}
----

- `mgmt-stack-setup.service`: contains the configuration to create the systemd service to run the scripts during the first boot (no modifications needed).
+
[,shell]
----
[Unit]
Description=Setup Management stack components
Wants=network-online.target

> # It requires rke2 or k3s running, but it won't fail if those services are not present

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# It requires rke2 or k3s running, but it will not fail if those services are not present
```

systemctl enable mgmt-stack-setup.service
----

- `99-register.sh` script: contains the configuration to register the system using the SCC registration code. The `$\{SCC_ACCOUNT_EMAIL\}` and `$\{SCC_REGISTRATION_CODE\}` have to be set properly to register the system with your account.
+
[,shell]
----
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

# Registration https://www.suse.com/support/kb/doc/?id=000018564
if ! which SUSEConnect > /dev/null 2>&1; then
	zypper --non-interactive install suseconnect-ng
fi
SUSEConnect --email "${SCC_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}" --url "https://scc.suse.com" --regcode "${SCC_REGISTRATION_CODE}"
----

[#mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-folder]
==== Kubernetes folder

The `kubernetes` folder contains the following subfolders:

[,console]
----
...
├── kubernetes
│ ├── manifests
│ │ ├── rke2-ingress-config.yaml
│ │ ├── neuvector-namespace.yaml
│ │ ├── ingress-l2-adv.yaml
│ │ └── ingress-ippool.yaml
│ ├── helm
│ │ └── values
│ │     ├── rancher.yaml
│ │     ├── neuvector.yaml
│ │     ├── metal3.yaml
│ │     └── certmanager.yaml
│ └── config
│     └── server.yaml
...
----

The `kubernetes/config` folder contains the following files:

> - `server.yaml`: By default, the `CNI` plugin installed by default is `Cilium`, so you do not need to create this folder and file. Just in case you need to customize the `CNI` plugin, you can use the `server.yaml` file under the `kubernetes/config` folder. It contains the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `server.yaml`: By default, the `CNI` plug-in installed by default is `Cilium`, so you do not need to create this folder and file. Just in case you need to customize the `CNI` plug-in, you can use the `server.yaml` file under the `kubernetes/config` folder. It contains the following information:
```

====

The `kubernetes/manifests` folder contains the following files:

- `rke2-ingress-config.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Ingress` service for the management cluster (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: helm.cattle.io/v1
kind: HelmChartConfig
metadata:
  name: rke2-ingress-nginx
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  valuesContent: |-
    controller:
      config:
        use-forwarded-headers: "true"
        enable-real-ip: "true"
      publishService:
        enabled: true
      service:
        enabled: true
        type: LoadBalancer
        externalTrafficPolicy: Local
----

- `neuvector-namespace.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `NeuVector` namespace (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce: privileged
  name: neuvector
----

- `ingress-l2-adv.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `L2Advertisement` for the `MetalLB` component (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: L2Advertisement
metadata:
  name: ingress-l2-adv
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  ipAddressPools:
    - ingress-ippool
----

> - `ingress-ippool.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `IPAddressPool` for the `MetalLB` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address reserved to be used by the `MetalLB` component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ingress-ippool.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `IPAddressPool` for the `MetalLB` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` must be set properly to define the IP address reserved to be used by the `MetalLB` component.
```

> - `ingress-ippool.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `IPAddressPool` for the `MetalLB` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address reserved to be used by the `MetalLB` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ingress-ippool.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `IPAddressPool` for the `rke2-ingress-nginx` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address reserved to be used by the `rke2-ingress-nginx` component.
```

Author: good catch

+
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: IPAddressPool
metadata:
  name: ingress-ippool
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  addresses:
    - ${INGRESS_VIP}/32
  serviceAllocation:
    priority: 100
    serviceSelectors:
      - matchExpressions:
          - {key: app.kubernetes.io/name, operator: In, values: [rke2-ingress-nginx]}
----

> 

Reviewer: You need to add the ipaddresspool and l2adv for the ironic service.

Author: This is included in the metal3.sh script you created xDDDD

Reviewer: I'm just stupid

The `kubernetes/helm/values` folder contains the following files:

> - `rancher.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Rancher` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Rancher` component. The URL to access the `Rancher` component will be `https://rancher-$\{INGRESS_VIP\}.sslip.io`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `rancher.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Rancher` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` must be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Rancher` component. The URL to access the `Rancher` component will be `https://rancher-$\{INGRESS_VIP\}.sslip.io`.
```

+
[,yaml]
----
hostname: rancher-${INGRESS_VIP}.sslip.io
bootstrapPassword: "foobar"
replicas: 1
global.cattle.psp.enabled: "false"
----

- `neuvector.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `NeuVector` component (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
----
controller:
  replicas: 1
  ranchersso:
    enabled: true
manager:
  enabled: false
cve:
  scanner:
    enabled: false
    replicas: 1
k3s:
  enabled: true
crdwebhook:
  enabled: false
----

> - `metal3.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Metal^3^` component. The `$\{METAL3_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Metal^3^` component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `metal3.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Metal^3^` component. The `$\{METAL3_VIP\}` must be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Metal^3^` component.
```

+
[,yaml]
----
global:
  ironicIP: ${METAL3_VIP}
  enable_vmedia_tls: false
metal3-ironic:
  global:
    predictableNicNames: "true"
  persistence:
    ironic:
      size: "5Gi"
----

[#metal3-media-server]
[NOTE]
====

> The Media Server is an optional feature included in Metal^3^ (by default is disabled). To use the Metal3 feature you need to  on the previous manifest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Media Server is an optional feature included in Metal^3^ (by default is disabled). To use the Metal3 feature, you need to  on the previous manifest.
```

> The Media Server is an optional feature included in Metal^3^ (by default is disabled). To use the Metal3 feature you need to  on the previous manifest.

Reviewer 2: There seems to be a word missing after "need to".

Author: configure it. Added

To use the Metal^3^ media server, specify the following variable:

- add the `enable_metal3_media_server` to `true` to enable the media server feature in the global section.
- include the following configuration about the media server where $\{MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH\} is the path to the media volume in the media (e.g `/home/metal3/bmh-image-cache`)
+
[,yaml]
----
metal3-media:
  mediaVolume:
    hostPath: ${MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH}

> ----

Reviewer 4: With this change I think we can mark this PR as resolving https://github.com/suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io/issues/270 ?

Author: I think so

Author: reviewed also with @ranjinimn.

====

- `certmanager.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Cert-Manager` component (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
----
installCRDs: "true"
----

[#mgmt-cluster-network-folder]
==== Networking folder

The `network` folder contains as many files as nodes in the management cluster. In our case, we have only one node, so we have only one file called `mgmt-cluster-node1.yaml`.

> The name of the file has to match the hostname defined in the `mgmt-cluster.yaml` definition file into the network/node section described above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The name of the file must match the host name defined in the `mgmt-cluster.yaml` definition file into the network/node section described above.
```

[,yaml]
----
global:
  ironicIP: ${METAL3_VIP}
  enable_vmedia_tls: false
metal3-ironic:
  global:
    predictableNicNames: "true"
  persistence:
    ironic:
      size: "5Gi"
----

[#metal3-media-server]
[NOTE]
====
The Media Server is an optional feature included in Metal^3^ (by default is disabled). To use the Metal3 feature you need to  on the previous manifest.
To use the Metal^3^ media server, specify the following variable:

- add the `enable_metal3_media_server` to `true` to enable the media server feature in the global section.
- include the following configuration about the media server where ${MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH} is the path to the media volume in the media (e.g `/home/metal3/bmh-image-cache`)

[,yaml]
----
metal3-media:
  mediaVolume:
    hostPath: ${MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH}
----
====

- `certmanager.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Cert-Manager` component (no modifications needed).

[,yaml]
----
installCRDs: "true"
----

==== Networking folder

The `network` folder contains as many files as nodes in the management cluster. In our case, we have only one node, so we have only one file called `mgmt-cluster-node1.yaml`.

> The name of the file has to match the hostname defined in the `mgmt-cluster.yaml` definition file into the network/node section described above.

Author: done

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce: privileged
  name: neuvector
----

- `ingress-l2-adv.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `L2Advertisement` for the `MetalLB` component (no modifications needed).

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: L2Advertisement
metadata:
  name: ingress-l2-adv
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  ipAddressPools:
    - ingress-ippool
----

- `ingress-ippool.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `IPAddressPool` for the `MetalLB` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address reserved to be used by the `MetalLB` component.

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: IPAddressPool
metadata:
  name: ingress-ippool
  namespace: metallb-system
spec:
  addresses:
    - ${INGRESS_VIP}/32
  serviceAllocation:
    priority: 100
    serviceSelectors:
      - matchExpressions:
          - {key: app.kubernetes.io/name, operator: In, values: [rke2-ingress-nginx]}
----

[#mgmt-cluster-kubernetes-helm-folder]
The `kubernetes/helm/values` folder contains the following files:

> - `rancher.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Rancher` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Rancher` component. The URL to access the `Rancher` component will be `https://rancher-$\{INGRESS_VIP\}.sslip.io`.

Reviewer 3: ````
- `rancher.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Rancher` component. The `$\{INGRESS_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Rancher` component. The URL to access the `Rancher` component is `https://rancher-$\{INGRESS_VIP\}.sslip.io`.
+
[,yaml]
````

[,yaml]
----
hostname: rancher-${INGRESS_VIP}.sslip.io
bootstrapPassword: "foobar"
replicas: 1
global.cattle.psp.enabled: "false"
----

> - `neuvector.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `NeuVector` component (no modifications needed).

Reviewer 3: ````
- `neuvector.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `NeuVector` component (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
````

[,yaml]
----
controller:
  replicas: 1
  ranchersso:
    enabled: true
manager:
  enabled: false
cve:
  scanner:
    enabled: false
    replicas: 1
k3s:
  enabled: true
crdwebhook:
  enabled: false
----

> - `metal3.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Metal^3^` component. The `$\{METAL3_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Metal^3^` component.

Reviewer 3: ````
- `metal3.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Metal^3^` component. The `$\{METAL3_VIP\}` has to be set properly to define the IP address to be consumed by the `Metal^3^` component.
+
[,yaml]
````

[,yaml]
----
global:
  ironicIP: ${METAL3_VIP}
  enable_vmedia_tls: false
metal3-ironic:
  global:
    predictableNicNames: "true"
  persistence:
    ironic:
      size: "5Gi"
----

[#metal3-media-server]
[NOTE]
====
The Media Server is an optional feature included in Metal^3^ (by default is disabled). To use the Metal3 feature you need to  on the previous manifest.
To use the Metal^3^ media server, specify the following variable:

> - add the `enable_metal3_media_server` to `true` to enable the media server feature in the global section.

Reviewer 3: ````
- Add the `enable_metal3_media_server` to `true` to enable the media server feature in the global section.
- Include the following configuration about the media server where $\{MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH\} is the path to the media volume in the media (e.g `/home/metal3/bmh-image-cache`)
+
[,yaml]
````

- include the following configuration about the media server where $\{MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH\} is the path to the media volume in the media (e.g `/home/metal3/bmh-image-cache`)

[,yaml]
----
metal3-media:
  mediaVolume:
    hostPath: ${MEDIA_VOLUME_PATH}
----
====

> - `certmanager.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Cert-Manager` component (no modifications needed).

Reviewer 3: ````
- `certmanager.yaml`: contains the configuration to create the `Cert-Manager` component (no modifications needed).
+
[,yaml]
````

  mac-address: ${MGMT_MAC}
  ipv4:
    address:
    - ip: ${MGMT_NODE_IP}
      prefix-length: 24
    dhcp: false
    enabled: true
  ipv6:
    enabled: false

----

> In case you want to use DHCP to get the IP address, you can use the following configuration (the `MAC` address has to be set properly using the `$\{MGMT_MAC\}` variable):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use DHCP to get the IP address, you can use the following configuration (the `MAC` address must be set properly using the `$\{MGMT_MAC\}` variable):
```

  mac-address: ${MGMT_MAC}
  ipv4:
    address:
    - ip: ${MGMT_NODE_IP}
      prefix-length: 24
    dhcp: false
    enabled: true
  ipv6:
    enabled: false

----

In case you want to use DHCP to get the IP address, you can use the following configuration (the `MAC` address has to be set properly using the `$\{MGMT_MAC\}` variable):

[,yaml]
----

## This is an example of a dhcp network configuration for a management cluster
## interfaces:
- name: eth0
  type: ethernet
  state: up
  mac-address: ${MGMT_MAC}
  ipv4:
    dhcp: true
    enabled: true
  ipv6:
    enabled: false
----

[NOTE]
====

> - Depending on the number of nodes in the management cluster, you can create more files like `mgmt-cluster-node2.yaml`, `mgmt-cluster-node3.yaml`, etc. to configure properly the rest of the nodes.

Reviewer 3: ````
- Depending on the number of nodes in the management cluster, you can create more files like `mgmt-cluster-node2.yaml`, `mgmt-cluster-node3.yaml`, etc. to configure the rest of the nodes.
````

Author: which is the suggestion?

- The `routes` section is used to define the routing table for the management cluster.

> - The examples contain a static IP configuration, but you can also use DHCP by setting `dhcp: true` in the `ipv4` section (uncomment the lines).

Reviewer 3: Just  a question for my understanding: 
Here, does the user need to uncomment "## interfaces" line?

Author: good catch, the last line in the note has to be deleted. Thanks

This creates the ISO output image file that, in our case, based on the image definition described above, is `eib-mgmt-cluster-image.iso`.
This image contains all components inside, and it can be used to provision the management cluster using a virtual machine or a bare-metal server (using the virtual-media feature).

> 

Reviewer 3: you can remove these lines below 1004 as they do not have any content.
